Analytical Summary
This summary is based on recorded data from 15 high schools, 39170 students and 2 districts. The data is focused on math and reading scores per student, along with budget per school. The data has been recorded and saved on 2 csv files. The analytical process was conducted in jupyter notebook with pandas and pathlib. After loading the path to the csv files and reading them both into separate DataFrames ("school_data")("student_data") they were then merged into one DataFrame ("school_data_complete"). Now that all the data is in one DataFrame it was first analyzed in two separate summaries (District Summary) and (School Summary). 
The "District Summary" calculated the total number of unique schools, total number of students, total budget, average math score, average reading score, percentage of students who passed math, percentage of students who passed reading and percentage of students who passed both math and reading. After these calculations the results were recorded in a new DataFrame "district_summary". 
The "School Summary" is calculations per school including school type based on district, total student count, per capita spending, average test scores, number of students with math scores of 70 or higher, number of students with reading scores of 70 or higher, number of students with both math and reading scores of 70 or higher and passing rates. These results were recorded in a new DataFrame "per_school_summary". 
With these 2 new DataFrames the data was furthered analyzed to see which schools were the highest-performing and lowest-performing schools by percentage of overall passing. These results were recorded in DataFrames "top_schools" and "bottom_schools". 
Next the scores of math and reading were arranged by grades. Creating 2 more DataFrames "math_scores_by_grade" and "reading_scores_by_grade". 
The remaining analysis of this school data is focused on "School Spending", "School Size" and "School Type". 
To generate the "School Spending" these bins: 
"spending_bins = [0, 585, 630, 645, 680]"
"labels = ["<$585", "$585-630", "$630-645", "$645-680"]"
were used along with "pd.cut" to add a column "Spending Ranges (Per Student)" in a new DataFrame "school_spending_df". With this DataFrame calculations were made to compare school scores and spending per students. The results were recorded on a new DataFrame "spending_summary" with "Average Math Scores", "Average Reading Scores", "% Passing Math", "% Passing Reading" and "% Overall Passing".
To generate the "School Size" these bins:
size_bins = [0, 1000, 2000, 5000]
labels = ["Small (<1000)", "Medium (1000-2000)", "Large (2000-5000)"]
were used along with "pd.cut to add a column "School Size" and calculate the data as above in relation to school size. These calculations were recorded in a new DataFrame "size_summary"
To generate "School Type" the "per_school_data" DataFrame was used to group the columns list with "School Spending" with school type. These calculations were recorded in a new DataFrame "type_summary" 

The data concludes that the relationship between spending ranges per student and overall passing percentage seems to be linear. Of the 4 ranges ["<$585", "$585-630", "$630-645", "$645-680"]" the average overall passing percentage increases as the spending decreases. The overall passing percentage in relation for school size has a significant drop from medium(1000-2000) schools to large(2000-5000) schools. Dropping from 90.62% to 58.23%. This could be do to lack of resources as large schools have a wide range of budgets per student. The large schools are mixed throughout the list from top to bottom regarding budget per student. However, when we look at school types, "District" schools overall passing percentage is 53.67% compared to "Charter" schools at 90.43% and "District" schools overall are at the higher end of budgets per student. So based on this analysis "Charter" schools seem to score higher overall regardless of having a smaller student budget on average. There is one large "Charter" school amongst the "Charter" types in this data and so we can see that smaller populated schools can result in higher overall passing grades. This can be due to teacher to student ratio and having more opportunity for one on one help. 

